<!-- converted from Initial Project Requirements.docx -->

# Initial Project Requirements

This is a request for a system to automate certain project management aspects of software development at a medium size company (1000 software developers, 2000 employees).  The company usually structures their projects in a standard fashion.  This allows employees to record their time worked on the project (and get paid), allows customers to be billed for the work the company spends on the project, and allows the project manager to know how well the project is being run and to report to management.
This project entails implementation of a system that includes the following features:
The system is intended to support software development projects by capturing information on the effort planned for each work package and how much effort was actually spent on that work package.
Projects are identified by a unique alphanumeric project code, and are subdivided into work packages, each with a budgeted effort, in person-days.  All work in the company (including internally funded work) is done within some project.
Employees are identified by an employee number and are assigned to one of more projects.
Employees fill in weekly timesheets, indicating the number of hours charged to each project/work package, for each day of the week.  Timesheet data is entered to the nearest 0.1 hour.
The system should accept weekly timesheet entries from the employees (preferably with electronic signature) and enter the data into a database.
Every week, the system should provide reports for the Project Manager of each project, indicating how many hours each employee charged to each work package in the project, for the most current week, month, and project to date.
Every month, the system should provide a report comparing the actual and planned effort for each work package on the project.  The system must provide Earned Value reports as specified by the customer.
Timesheets should be able to be entered from any computer that has a web browser.  It would be desirable if timesheets could be submitted from smartphones.
The project managers can be assumed to standardize on a particular operating system to be negotiated between the team and the customer.
Projects can be closed/archived which will close all the work packages and not allow further charges to the project.
A master admin account can perform all actions in the system.
The system will use component-based technology (default is Java EE, .NET could be proposed) to separate the database from the front-end I/O software.
It would be nice to be able to enter a timesheet from a tablet or smartphone.
Based on this initial specification, the customer was interviewed on the requirements.  The following transcript is provided.
Transcript of initial interview with customer
Q: Who will interact with the system?
A: 	Several different types of users will interact with the system.  All employees will use the system to enter their timesheets and find out how much vacation and sick leave they have accumulated.  A timesheet approver (who may be different for each employee - generally a project supervisor or line manager) must approve the timesheets or return the timesheet for correction.  Project managers, or their assistants, can enter project planning information, and check how much labour has been spent on projects.  Human resources staff can add employees into the system and assign them to line managers or supervisors.  Employee managers can assign employees to projects.  Project managers can assign employees that are on a project to work packages.  Someone will have to back up data on the system and handle administrative tasks.  Each work package on a project has a responsible person (often called a "responsible engineer") who plans and reports how much effort will be required to complete the work package, in addition to what has been spent.  The responsible engineer will have to interact with the system to do weekly or biweekly work package status reports.
Q:	What is a work package?
A:	All work in the company is done for a particular project (identified by a unique project number).  Some of the projects have external customers; others are accounting fictions used to gather information on overheads or internal costs.  All projects have a responsible manager, called a Project Manager (for internal projects, these Project Managers will usually go by other titles, such as Engineering Manager).  Projects are organized into smaller units of work, called Work Packages.  This can be done however the project manager sees fit.  Each work package has a work package id (called a work package number, even though it does not have to be numerical), which is unique within a project, not generally unique across projects.  A project could easily have hundreds of work packages.  These would be organized in a hierarchy, with the project as a whole being the top work package, and each work package possibly subdivided in to smaller work packages.  Work packages that are not subdivided into smaller work packages are called lowest-level work packages.  These are the ones that charges are allocated to.  The higher-level work packages are just summary work packages.  They represent the sum of all of the lowest-level work packages below them.  For this reason, a work package cannot be broken down into smaller work packages once actual costs have been charged to them.  As well, costs cannot be charged to a work package unless it is a lowest-level work package.
A lowest-level work package has a life cycle of its own.  At some point it does not exist.  Then it is created.  Then it is estimated and planned costs are associated with it.  Then it can be opened for charges.  It can also be closed for charges, which means that the work package exists, but cannot at the moment be charged to.  Then the work package is complete, after which it is not expected to get any further charges.  Between the time a work package has planned costs, and when it is complete, the responsible engineer will provide periodic task status reports to the system, so the system can always estimate the cost of the work package at completion.  This, in turn, allows all of the higher-level work packages, including the project as a whole, to have an estimated cost at completion.  Work packages that have not been subdivided can have planned costs associated with them.  This allows project planning flexibility.
Q:	What is a timesheet?
A:	Every week, all employees must account for the time they have worked in that week, by filling in a timesheet through the system.  This replaces a paper-based system that is in use at present.  On the timesheet, the employee must record the number of hours (and tenths of hours) that were worked on each project and work package that the employee worked on.  For a full-time employee, the total number of hours must equal the full-time load that the employee is expected to work in a week.  The hours are recorded for each day in the week, from Sunday to Friday.  The employee must be able to electronically sign the timesheet in a legally valid manner.
Q: Do you have a sample timesheet?
A:

Q: Are there any reports required?
A: The Project Manager needs to be able to get a weekly report of charges to the project for each work package.  This report should be sorted by work package number, and for each work package have a line for each person charging to the work package that week.
There is also a project summary report that has the current status of the project with the actual charges for each work package plus the estimated work remaining to finish each work package.  This is a very detailed report.
There are other reports as well.  I will see if I can find some sample copies for you. In addition, the flexibility of the new system may suggest new reports which we would find useful.
Q: How does the system calculate charges to work packages?  The only data entered is hours of time charged (in the timesheets).
A: Each employee is assigned to a labour grade of JS, DS, P1, P2, …, P6.  Each labour grade has a charge rate that the project is charged for one hour of time by someone in that classification.  These are internal charges.  Each project has a mark-up number that indicates what the customer is charged (some multiple of the internal charge) for the same labour.
Project work packages are budgeted to take a certain number of person-days (or person hours) for each of the above P-levels.  When individuals are assigned to the work package, the actual charges are based on their actual P-levels.  For example, a work package might be estimated to take 10 person-days of P4 and 30 person-days of P2 to complete.  If someone who is a P3 is assigned to the project, the charges would be the time from the timesheet multiplied by the P3 rate.
Q:	Thanks for this initial information.  We will have more questions when we digest these answers.
A:	No problem.  This project is very important to us.  Please feel free to ask anything to clarify the requirements.
